---
aid: 496
cid: 6
authorID: 133
title: 'How to Live: A Life of Montainge, Excerpts'
tags:
    - how
    - to
    - live
    - life
    - of
comments:
    -
        authorID: 133
        addTime: 2018-05-10T09:19:00.000Z
        content: >-
            Even philosophy needs to be “thickened and obscured” before it can
            be applied to real life. “There is no need to light up affairs so
            deeply and so subtly.” Nothing is to be gained from living like
            Tasso, blinding oneself with one’s own brilliance. It is better to
            be moderate, modest, and a little vague. Nature will take care of
            the rest.
    -
        authorID: 133
        addTime: 2018-05-10T09:21:00.000Z
        content: 'Life should be an aim unto itself, a purpose unto itself.'
date: 2018-05-10T05:40:00.000Z
category: 读书
---

An being updated post on the book

\---------------------------------------------------------

And Montaigne was right. Life did go on. The St. Bartholomew’s massacres, terrible as they were, gave way to years of inconclusive individual suffering rather than heralding the end of the world. The Antichrist did not come. Generation followed generation until a time came when, as Montaigne predicted, many people had only the vaguest idea that his century’s wars ever took place. This happened partly because of the work he and his fellow politiques did to restore sanity. Montaigne, affecting ease and comfort, contributed more to saving his country than his zealous contemporaries. Some of his work was directly political, but his greatest contribution was simply to stay out of it and write the Essays. This, in the eyes of many, makes him a hero. --- How to Live, Guard Your Humanity

\--------------------------------------

Zweig knew that Montaigne disliked preaching, yet he managed to extract a series of general rules from the Essays. He did not list them as such, but paraphrased them in such a way as to resolve them into eight separate commandments—which could also be called the eight freedoms:

Be free from vanity and pride.  
Be free from belief, disbelief, convictions, and parties.  
Be free from habit. Be free from ambition and greed.  
Be free from family and surroundings.  
Be free from fanaticism.  
Be free from fate; be master of your own life.  
Be free from death; life depends on the will of others, but death on our own will.

\--------------------------------------

Only a person who has lived through a time that threatens his life and that valuable substance, his individual freedom, with war, power, and tyrannical ideologies—only he knows how much courage, how much honesty and determination are needed to maintain the inner self in such a time of herd insanity.

\------------------------------------------

But many passages in the Essays seem rather to suggest that you should engage with the future; specifically, you should not turn your back on the real historical world in order to dream of paradise and religious transcendence. Montaigne provides all the encouragement anyone could need to respect others, to refrain from murder on the pretense of pleasing God, and to resist the urge that periodically makes humans destroy everything around them and “set back life to its beginnings.” As Flaubert told his friends, “Read Montaigne … He will calm you.” But, as he also added: “Read him in order to live.”
