---
aid: 4123
cid: 2
authorID: 1434
addTime: 2020-04-06T19:45:00.000Z
title: 英国首相进入ICU 英镑暴跌
tags:
    - ICU
    - 英国首相
    - 英镑
    - 暴跌
    - 进入
comments: []
date: 2020-04-06T19:45:00.000Z
category: 时政
---

美东时间下午三时，英媒传来消息，PM Boris进入重症监护，病情严重，英镑暴跌。为约翰逊祈祷，God save the Queen snd Boris. Boris Johnson has been moved to intensive care after his coronavirus symptoms worsened, Downing Street have confirmed.

A statement from Number 10 said: "over the course of this afternoon, the condition of the Prime Minister has worsened and, on the advice of his medical team, he has been moved to the Intensive Care Unit at the hospital.

"The PM has asked Foreign Secretary, Dominic Raab, who is the First Secretary of State, to deputise for him where necessary.

"The PM is receiving excellent care, and thanks all NHS staff for their hard work and dedication."

https://www.telegraph.co.uk/global-health/science-and-disease/coronavirus-news-uk-boris-johnson-hospital-queen-speech-cases/

British pound slumps against dollar intraday Monday as U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson moved to to ICU

The British Pound Monday afternoon swung lower against the U.S. dollar after U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson was moved to the intensive care unit. The U.K. prime minister has been stricken with intensifying symptoms from COVID-19 for more than a week and was hospitalized on Sunday as a precaution to St Thomas' Hospital in London. However, his condition has worsened, according to reports. "Over the course of this afternoon, the condition of the prime minister has worsened and, on the advice of his medical team, he has been moved to the intensive care unit at the hospital," read a statement from 10 Downing. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab will serve as a replacement for Johnson "where necessary," read the statement. The British pound GBPUSD, -0.245% was down 0.2% against the U.S. dollar Monday afternoon, changing hands at $1.2242, but had been at around $1.23 before the report of Johnson's move. An exchange traded fund that tracks the U.K. equity market was still in the green. The iShares MSCI United Kingdom ETF EWU, 4.257% was up 4.1%. The FTSE 100, meanwhile, finished Monday trade in London up 3.1% at 5,582.39. Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick told BBC radio Monday morning that Johnson's admission was "routine," taken as a precautionary measure.

https://www.marketwatch.com/story/british-pound-slumps-against-dollar-intraday-monday-as-uk-prime-minister-boris-johnson-moved-to-to-icu-2020-04-06
