---
aid: 3828
cid: 5
authorID: 2939
addTime: 2020-03-29T08:30:00.000Z
title: 'Dr. John Lee: How deadly is the coronavirus? It’s still far from clear'
tags:
    - John
    - Lee
    - How
    - Dr
    - It
comments: []
date: 2020-03-29T08:30:00.000Z
category: 分享发现
---

'The moral debate is not lives vs money. It is lives vs lives. It will take months, perhaps years, if ever, before we can assess the wider implications of what we are doing. The damage to children’s education, the excess suicides, the increase in mental health problems, the taking away of resources from other health problems that we were dealing with effectively. Those who need medical help now but won’t seek it, or might not be offered it. And what about the effects on food production and global commerce, that will have unquantifiable consequences for people of all ages, perhaps especially in developing economies?

Governments everywhere say they are responding to the science. The policies in the UK are not the government’s fault. They are trying to act responsibly based on the scientific advice given. But governments must remember that rushed science is almost always bad science. We have decided on policies of extraordinary magnitude without concrete evidence of excess harm already occurring, and without proper scrutiny of the science used to justify them.

In the next few days and weeks, we must continue to look critically and dispassionately at the Covid-19 evidence as it comes in. Above all else, we must keep an open mind — and look for what is, not for what we fear might be.'

https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/The-evidence-on-Covid-19-is-not-as-clear-as-we-think
