---
aid: 4636
cid: 5
authorID: 2450
addTime: 2020-04-26T19:15:00.000Z
title: Send this to your members of congress/parliament
tags:
    - congress
    - parliament
    - Send
    - members
comments:
    -
        authorID: 2450
        addTime: 2020-04-27T00:30:00.000Z
        content: >-
            Please share this article


            https://telegra.ph/Please-voice-for-three-Chinese-Covid-19-activists-detained-by-Beijing-police-04-27


            or reddit


            https://www.reddit.com/r/saraba2nd/comments/g8kxvv/send\_this\_to\_your\_members\_of\_congressparliament/
    -
        authorID: 2942
        addTime: 2020-04-27T15:00:00.000Z
        content: Updated 管理员回复
    -
        authorID: 3793
        addTime: 2020-04-27T16:45:00.000Z
        content: 谢谢。很好的模板。
    -
        authorID: 2450
        addTime: 2020-04-27T17:15:00.000Z
        content: >-
            @[爱狗却养猫](/member/%E7%88%B1%E7%8B%97%E5%8D%B4%E5%85%BB%E7%8C%AB) #3
            多发给议员
date: 2020-04-27T17:15:00.000Z
category: 分享发现
---

[](#title)title:
----------------

Please voice for three Chinese Covid-19 activists detained by Beijing police

[](#content-template)content template:
--------------------------------------

Dear Sir/Madam \[Name of Congressman\],

My name is XXX, a resident of \[hometown\] from the district of Senator \[name\]. I am writing to urge you voice for 3 young Chinese activists in Beijing, who were detained on April 19, 2020, after sharing censored coronavirus material on crowdsourcing site Github. (Source https://www.scmp.com/news/china/politics/article/3081569/chinese-activists-detained-after-sharing-censored-coronavirus) At this moment, they were kept in an unknown place by Beijing police, leaving their desperate parents alone. Please voice for the trio, calling Beijing to release their detained location and health condition, help them to avoid further restriction of freedom, torture or even disappearance.

"The trio – Cai Wei, his girlfriend, a woman surnamed Tang, and Chen Mei – were contributors to a crowd-sourced project known as Terminus2049 that began in 2018 and collected articles that had been removed from mainstream media outlets and social media. Microsoft-owned Github lets programmers collaborate on code, but has increasingly become a haven for Chinese activists who want to circumvent the Great Firewall to publish censored content."

According to evidences provided by one of their anonymous collaborators (Chinese Source: https://github.com/2049bbs/2049bbs.github.io/blob/master/README.md), Cai Wei is the owner of Github account 'TerminusBot' (https://github.com/Terminus2049), which has been inactive since April 18th. Via TerminusBot, Cai Wei running tens of crowd-sourced social projects, including the crowd-sourced project Terminus2049 (https://github.com/Terminus2049/Terminus2049.github.io) and a Chinese BBS website (url https://2049bbs.xyz, codebase https://github.com/Terminus2049/2049bbs ). The Github account TerminusBot (renamed from Tsai1993) is linked to Cai Wei's Tsinghua university email (caiw[\[email protected\]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)). Note: In Chinese language, Tsai = Cai, the former is used in Taiwan, the latter is used in mainland China.

Since 2018, the trio and their crowd-sourced social projects made huge impact via fighting the censorship in China. Cai Wei and their online followers are fighting in the frontline for the freedom of speech in China during Hongkong protests and Wuhan coronavius pandemic in 2019-2020. Their crowd-sourced social projects help to wake and encourage tens of thousands of Chinese both in mainland and oversea to join the counter-campaigns against the disinformation campaigns funded and orchestrated by the Chinese Communist Party.

I urge you to voice for these activists, Cai Wei, Miss Tang, and Chen Mei, calling the Chinese police to publish their detaining location and latest conditions, and calling for their immediate release. The three young people are the latest example of human rights abuses and information warfare committed by Chinese Communist Party to its own citizens as well as to the whole world, after the Chinese whistleblower Li Wenliang, and disappeared citizen journalists Fang Bin and Li Zehua.

Here is the detailed information of the three young heroes (Source https://www.epochtimes.com/gb/20/4/25/n12060478.htm ) if any help:

Cai Wei was born in Hubei and was born in 1993. He used to work for an Internet company in Beijing. He got bachelor's degree from Central University of Finance and Economics and master's degree from the Department of Social Sciences of Tsinghua University in 2018. Volunteer in youth education activities during college.

Chen Mei was born in Shaanxi and was born in 1993. He graduated from South China Agricultural University in 2016. Worked in a public welfare organization in Beijing, and raised books and organized public welfare lectures for public welfare activities.

Miss Tang is a native of Anhui. She was born in 1990, graduated from Peking University's Department of Sociology with a master's degree.

Coming from a nation founded on the principles of freedom you must understand how critical this moment is. We have seen first hand the costs of censorship from the CCP in the lives of innocent Americans. This oppressive government has now ripped away the very basic freedom of life and liberty from countless people that it can't go unnoticed. Actions taken during hard times like these define who we are, and sitting back and letting this regime have its way makes us no better than them. If you share these values of freedom that our ancestors risked their lives for I urge you to take action and speak out in support of those fighting for freedom on the front line in mainland China. This isn’t a matter of communism versus democracies, this is a matter of basic human rights.

Thank you very much!

Sincerely,

\[Your Name\]

\[Phone\]

\[Date\]
