---
aid: 2412
cid: 2
authorID: 2149
addTime: 2020-01-06T05:00:00.000Z
title: 当即将要生小孩的妈妈分享了她曾经的堕胎的故事，在金球奖的获奖感言里
tags:
    - 生小孩
    - 金球奖
    - 堕胎
    - 感言
    - 获奖
comments:
    -
        authorID: 1
        addTime: 2020-01-06T05:15:00.000Z
        content: >-
            没看懂底下的评论。


            单单就摘录的这段话，深有感触，女性似乎被更多地教导要听话，要顺服，能够自己做主的机会比男性似乎要少得多，很多女性朋友的政治投票似乎都是跟随自己的伴侣，难以有独立的表达。独立自主才能有自由，只有这样才有说不的底气，否则遇到渣男真是毁一生，再寄居在父母那里更难以独立自主了。


            希望每一位女性朋友都能有自主自由的生活。
    -
        authorID: 2149
        addTime: 2020-01-06T05:30:00.000Z
        content: |-
            @[小二](/member/%E5%B0%8F%E4%BA%8C) #1  
            底下的comments是我顺便水一下Golden Globe的观后感。。。= =
date: 2020-01-06T05:30:00.000Z
category: 时政
---

When you put this in someone’s hands, you’re acknowledging the choices that they make as an actor. Moment by moment, scene by scene, day by day.  
But you’re also acknowledging the choices they make as a person. The education they pursue, the training they sought, the hours they put in.  
I’m grateful for the acknowledgment of the choices I’ve made and also grateful to have lived at a moment in our society where choice exists. As women and as girls things can happen to our bodies that are not our choice. **I’ve tried my very best to live a life of my own making and not just a series of events that happened to me, but one that I could stand back and look at and recognize my handwriting all over it — sometimes messy and scrawling, sometimes careful and precise, but one that I have carved with my own hand.**  
I wouldn’t have been able to do this without employing a woman’s right to choose. To choose when to have my children and with whom. When I felt supported and able to balance our lives, knowing as all mothers know that the scales must and will tilt towards our children.  
I know my choices might look different than yours. But thank god or whomever you pray to that we live in a country founded on the principle that I am free to live by my faith and you are free to live by yours.  
So, women, 18 to 118, when it is time to vote, please do so in your own self-interest. It’s what men have been doing for years, which is why the world looks so much like them, but don’t forget we are the largest voting body in this country. Let’s make it look more like us.  
  
—— Michelle Williams

又 what a win from Awkwafina! Woohoo

又Joaquin Phoenix是不是感觉under some kind of influence？不过私人飞机以及从每个人自己做起倒是大实话，长期爱护环境倡导者兼被人发现六星期内搭了六次来回私人飞机行程的LDC瞬间中箭。。。
