---
aid: 3502
cid: 5
authorID: 3
addTime: 2020-03-15T20:45:00.000Z
title: covid2019公开课
tags:
    - 公开课
    - covid2019
comments: []
date: 2020-03-15T20:45:00.000Z
category: 分享发现
---

*   Coursera：由伦敦帝国学院开的 [**Science Matters: Let's Talk About COVID-19**](https://www.coursera.org/learn/covid-19)

> Welcome to ‘Science Matters: Let's Talk about COVID-19’, from the Abdul Latif Jameel Institute for Disease Emergency Analytics (J-IDEA) at Imperial College London.
> 
> The outbreak of the novel Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) is the most significant public health emergency of the 21st century so far. As the epidemic spreads, people around the world want to understand the science behind the most pressing questions: how many people have been infected? How dangerous is the virus? When will a vaccine be available? How can the epidemic be contained, and the damages mitigated? What is the economic impact? What’s the role of social media and local communities in the epidemic response?
> 
> Researchers at J-IDEA and other research institutes at Imperial College London have been at the forefront of the response to the COVID-19 emergency, with clinical, epidemiological and social science analyses informing the outbreak response. They are generating robust empirical evidence that governments and international agencies are using around the world to plan their responses.
> 
> On this course, you will hear directly from our world class experts about the theory behind the analyses of COVID-19 and its spread, while learning how to interpret new information using core principles of public health, epidemiology, medicine, health economics, and social science. You will be able to watch regular situation reports about the state of the epidemic, provided by the researchers of J-IDEA and its director Professor Neil Ferguson.
> 
> If you want to learn even more about these topics, a number of free MOOCs are available from Imperial College London. We also offer a fully online Global Master of Public Health for those of you who want to delve even deeper and join our professional community.
> 
> Please note that we are creating all the content in real time as new information breaks, and that new material will be uploaded as it becomes available. The contents of the course are available free of charge.

*   研讨会：**discrimination racism during the coronavirus outbreak**

伦敦卫生与热带病学院在3月11日举行了一个**关于新冠疫情导致的对中国和亚洲群体歧视问题的研讨会**。

研讨会视频记录：[https://panopto.lshtm.ac.uk/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=b9b35ff7-035c-4862-adbb-ab6f010156a4](https://panopto.lshtm.ac.uk/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=b9b35ff7-035c-4862-adbb-ab6f010156a4)
