---
aid: 4096
cid: 2
authorID: 1434
addTime: 2020-04-05T16:45:00.000Z
title: 我所认识的美国会比以往更强大
tags:
    - 美国会
    - 以往
    - 强大
    - 认识
comments:
    -
        authorID: 3496
        addTime: 2020-04-06T01:00:00.000Z
        content: 美国正能量
    -
        authorID: 3571
        addTime: 2020-04-06T01:00:00.000Z
        content: 我来翻译一下吧。
    -
        authorID: 3571
        addTime: 2020-04-06T01:00:00.000Z
        content: >-
            “每次有人打喷嚏，就有100人拉裤子！”这是俄罗斯喜剧演员雅科夫·斯米尔诺夫(Yakov
            Smirnoff)对目前卫生纸短缺的解释。事实上，这与任何其他解释一样接近事实，尽管据报道新冠病毒不会影响胃肠道。
    -
        authorID: 3571
        addTime: 2020-04-06T01:00:00.000Z
        content: >-
            最近，当我穿过沃尔玛，看到一条又一条的空架子时，我忍不住想，对于生活在苏联的年轻雅科夫来说，购物肯定就是这样的。几乎没有肉了。我确实设法弄到了几包意大利香肠，尽管我短期内没有使用它的计划。那里没有面粉、糖、鸡蛋或冷冻蔬菜，当然，也没有卫生纸。对我和我丈夫来说幸运的是，我们有一个完整的食品储藏室和冰箱，所以我们在目前的紧急情况下会没事的，至少一段时间是这样。
    -
        authorID: 3571
        addTime: 2020-04-06T01:00:00.000Z
        content: >-
            商店正在以最快的速度补充货架，但无法跟上需求。一位朋友给我发了一条短信，告诉我她买到了一小包便宜的卫生纸。这几乎就像中了彩票一样！


            根据“太阳报”最近的一篇文章，州长卢扬·格里沙姆(Lujan
            Grisham)坚称“供应链很强大”。那么为什么是光秃秃的货架呢？我对此的答案是从购物中观察到的。我目睹人们拿着一箱箱的卫生纸和其他纸制品，以及其他必需品高高地堆放在他们的手推车里。我丈夫正试图从杂货店的冰箱里拿东西，这时一名妇女挤了进去，从他肩上伸过手去拿她想要的东西。当他坚持要她退后时，她变得义愤填膺。我们应该实行的六英尺高的社会隔离就到这里吧，更不用说普通的礼貌了！
    -
        authorID: 3571
        addTime: 2020-04-06T01:00:00.000Z
        content: >-
            我真的相信人们，尤其是美国人与生俱来的善良。我们总是在危急时刻团结在一起。那么现在是怎么回事呢？我们的人性在哪里？似乎，在某些情况下，我们让恐惧占据了主导地位，使我们沦为动物本能，就像我们在电视上看到的第三世界国家的人们为了拿到一袋大米或面粉而互相推搡的电影一样。


            另一方面，报纸上也有关于人类善良和慷慨的故事，比如拉斯克鲁塞斯的艾米·惠普尔(Amy
            Whiple)在她的前院建了一个类似于橱柜的东西，里面放着一些基本必需品，并邀请其他人自助或投递物品。
    -
        authorID: 3571
        addTime: 2020-04-06T01:00:00.000Z
        content: >-
            商店正在为老年人和高危人群留出时间，让他们在货架被买光之前购物。他们还限制了顾客可以购买的特定商品的数量。


            冠状病毒博客：关于新冠病毒爆发你需要知道什么


            福特(Ford)和雪佛兰(Chevrolet)等许多大企业以及许多小企业都在对工厂进行设备改造，以生产所需的医疗设备和用品，如呼吸机、呼吸器和口罩。一些公司总裁正在没收自己的工资，这样他们的员工就可以继续拿到工资。科学家们正在长时间工作，以找出治愈方法或治疗方法，甚至可能是疫苗。


            幸运的是，在此之前，我们有一个强大的经济，一旦我们重新开始工作，我相信我们会比以往任何时候都更加强大。同时，让我们不要让恐惧凌驾于我们的人性意识之上。看看你的邻居和年迈的亲戚。确保他们有他们需要的东西。如果你有很多东西，就和别人分享。这才是我仍然相信的真正的美国。


            玛德琳·桑切斯是一名有30多年经验的护士。她在空军预备役服役22年后退役，军衔为少校。她和丈夫住在新墨西哥州的拉梅萨。
    -
        authorID: 2325
        addTime: 2020-04-06T04:45:00.000Z
        content: >-
            @[陈士杰](/member/%E9%99%88%E5%A3%AB%E6%9D%B0) #3
            我看见相反，病毒不但影响胃肠道，还可以藏匿在肠道，在“治愈”复发。更可以通过粪便传染。
date: 2020-04-06T04:45:00.000Z
category: 时政
---

The America I know will come back stronger than ever Madeline Sanchez, Your viewPublished 1:35 a.m. MT April 5, 2020

“Every time someone sneezes, 100 people poop their pants!” This is how Russian comedian Yakov Smirnoff explains the current run on toilet paper. Indeed, this is as close to the truth as any other explanation, even though the COVID-19 virus reportedly does not affect the gastrointestinal tract.

Recently, as I walked through Walmart and saw aisle after aisle of empty shelves I couldn’t help but think that this is what shopping must have been like for young Yakov living in the Soviet Union. There was almost no meat. I did manage to snag a couple of packages of Italian sausage, even though I have no plans to use it any time soon. There was no flour, sugar, eggs, or frozen vegetables and, of course, no toilet paper. Luckily for my husband and I, we have a full pantry and freezer so we will be fine during this current emergency, at least for awhile.

Stores are restocking their shelves as fast as they can but are unable to keep up with the demand. A friend sent me a text to let me know that she had been able to score a small package of cheap toilet paper. It was almost like winning the lottery!

According to a recent article in the Sun-News, Governor Lujan Grisham insists the “supply chain is strong.” So why the bare shelves? My answer came while I was shopping. I witnessed people with cases of toilet paper and other paper products, along with other necessities stacked high in their carts. My husband was attempting to get something out of the grocery store freezer when a woman pushed her way in and reached over his shoulder to get what she wanted. She became indignant when he insisted she back off. So much for the six-foot social isolation we are supposed to be practicing, not to mention common courtesy!

I truly believe in the inherent goodness of people and especially Americans. We have always come together in times of crisis. So what is going on now? Where is our humanity? Seems, in some cases, we have allowed fear to take over and reduce us to animal instinct, like the films we see on TV of people in Third World countries pushing and shoving each other trying to get a bag of rice or flour.

On the other hand, there are stories in the newspaper of human goodness and generosity, like Amy Whipple of Las Cruces who has built a cupboard of sorts in her front yard stocked with some basic necessities and inviting others to help themselves or drop off items.

Stores are setting aside hours for senior citizens and at-risk individuals to shop before the shelves are wiped clean. They are also limiting how many of a particular item a customer can buy.

Coronavirus blog: What you need to know about the COVID-19 outbreak

Many big businesses like Ford and Chevrolet and also many smaller business are retooling their plants to make needed medical equipment and supplies, like ventilators, respirators and face masks. Some CEOs are forfeiting their own salaries so their employees can continue to get paid. Scientists are working long hours to come up with a cure or a treatment, maybe even a vaccine.

Fortunately, we had a strong economy before this happened and, once we get back to work, I believe we will come back stronger than ever. In the meantime, let’s not let fear overrule our sense of humanity. Check on your neighbors and your elderly relatives. Make sure they have what they need. If you have an abundance of anything, share it with others. That is the real America I still believe in.

Madeline Sanchez is a nurse with over 30 years experience. She retired from the Air Force Reserve after 22 years, with the rank of major. She resides with her husband in La Mesa, NM

https://www.lcsun-news.com/story/opinion/2020/04/05/america-know-come-back-stronger-than-ever/2948299001/
